[Music]
in the early hours of April 15th 1912
after colliding with an iceberg in the
North Atlantic the famous British
passenger liner RMS Titanic sank to the
ocean depths leaving just 706 survivors
whatever became of them after this
tragedy well some of them went on to
live long and incredible lives the
Unsinkable Molly Brown is one of the
most popular and light characters in the
1964 movie and earlier Broadway musical
based on the great ships unlucky maiden
voyage but this woman wasn't just
thought up by some Hollywood
screenwriter she was a real passenger
Margaret Brown was known even before the
Titanic for being one of the first women
in the u.s. to run for office eight
years before women could even vote she
was in London when she found out that
her grandson was sick so she headed to
New York immediately because this
decision was so last-minute very few
people knew that she was on board the
Titanic once the ship struck the iceberg
mrs. Brown selflessly helped other
passengers into the lifeboats until she
was eventually talked into getting into
one herself after being rescued by the
RMS Carpathia she organized a committee
with other first-class survivors and
Carpathia passengers the committee would
raise money and provide counselling for
the more destitute people that lived
through the tragedy upon arriving in New
York she wouldn't leave the rescue ship
until she made sure that every survivor
received medical attention and found
their families mrs. Brown was given a
medal for her goodwill
in helping the Titanic survivors she was
also later awarded the French Legion of
Honour for her charitable work
rebuilding France and helping soldiers a
truly extraordinary woman speaking of
incredible women throughout her career
working at sea Miss violet Constance
Jessup survived not one but three
shipwrecks the Titanic included
she started out as a stewardess on board
the Olympic which crashed in 1911 just
seven months later she survived the
Titanic and then went on to serve as a
nurse for the British Red Cross on the
HMHS Britannic this ship sank from an
explosion but violet yet again came out
of it and kept working at sea this
adventurous spirit finally settled down
in great Ashfield England just like
Margaret Brown violet was often jokingly
called miss unsinkable
there's definitely truth to that the
actress Dorothy Gibson most famous for
her role in the 1912 movie saved from
the Titanic was actually one of the
survivors of the catastrophe she and her
mother were coming back to the u.s. on
board the Titanic after vacationing in
Europe the two had been playing bridge
with some friends when the ship struck
the iceberg they escaped together in the
half-empty lifeboat number 7 but nearly
sank again when one of the other
survivors noticed a hole in the boat
luckily they were able to plug it up
with some clothes
not long after Gibson arrived in New
York aboard the Carpathia her agent
convinced her to star in a movie about
the Titanic sinking
she wrote the script herself and wore
the same clothes in the movie that she
did on the night of the disaster the
film came out just a month after the
tragedy Dorothy later gave up her acting
career to work in the Metropolitan Opera
she spent her last years in Paris what a
life one of the most heartbreaking
outcomes of the Titanic sinking was that
it tore families apart
the Novato brothers master Michael
Marcel and master Edmund Rodger were
just toddlers when they boarded the
Titanic with their father as the Titanic
was sinking
he put his boys in the last lifeboat
with the final words my children when
your mother comes for you as she surely
will tell her that I loved her dearly
and still do tell her I expected her to
follow us so that we might all
happily together in the peace and
freedom of the new world unfortunately
little Michael and Edmund didn't speak
English at all so it took quite some
time to find their relatives their
mother eventually saw them in the
newspaper and the family reunited a
month after the sinking the brothers
grew up to have completely different
lives
Michael married his college sweetheart
became a professor of philosophy and
spent the rest of his life in Montpelier
Edmund also got married and worked as an
architect and builder AVA Miriam Hart
was only seven years old when she
boarded the Titanic with her parents
according to Ava her mother couldn't
sleep at all the whole time she was on
board because she'd had a really bad
premonition about the trip well the
Titanic was sinking Ava's father ran to
their cabin wrapped Ava in a blanket and
placed his wife and daughter in lifeboat
number 14
the last thing he told Ava was hold
mummys hand and be a good girl
Ava went on to do many things throughout
her life she was a singer in Australia
and a very outspoken activist when it
came to the whole Titanic ordeal she
even wrote an autobiography called
shadow of the Titanic a survivor story
one person Ava Hart probably had a bone
to pick with was Joseph Bruce Ismay well
she and plenty of others his may was
chairman of the White Star Line the
company that operated the Titanic he was
on the ship that night survived the
sinking and was rescued in collapsible
lifeboats C upon arriving in the US he
got a ton of heat for leaving the
Titanic while there were still women and
children on board after the Titanic he
tried to live a quiet life out of the
spotlight he continued dealing in
maritime affairs although not so much
with passenger liners and more with the
British Merchant Navy professional
tennis player richard Norris Williams
was on board the Titanic with his father
given that the lifeboats
as many know were reserved for women and
children these two guys were left to
fend for themselves on a sinking ship
they did pretty well at first but once
the ship had sunk deep enough to leave
the remaining passengers floating in the
water a huge smokestack suddenly
collapsed and crashed down on the
surface of the water perhaps it was
purely coincidental or maybe something
more but the resulting wave washed
Richard toward collapsible lifeboats so
he climbed in unfortunately that
lifeboat was full of freezing water that
passengers had to stand-in up to their
knees these survivors were later
transferred to lifeboat number 14 but
the damage of the cold water had already
been done Williams got frostbite on his
legs and once on board the Carpathia the
doctors recommended amputating both his
lower limbs but the tennis star would
have none of it so he exercised every
day and his legs slowly recovered he
even continued his tennis career became
an Olympic gold medalist and served in
the Army he later became a successful
investment banker and president of the
Historical Society of Pennsylvania now
it's your turn no not to sink with a
Titanic I mean which story moved you the
most let me know down below if you
learned something new today then give
the video a like and share it with a
friend
here are some other cool videos I think
you'll enjoy just click to the left or
right and remember stay on the bright
side of life it